# data-science-term-project
read details of project & results at: https://medium.com/fighting-for-food-security/blog-post-3-c5e8f747e0d1

## Vision
Our project aims to explore the intersection between food access, health, and economic disparity in Los Angeles county. Existing data shows a clear link between household income and obesity. Using this as a starting point, we explore how food plays into this equation.

Our goal is to better understand the extent to which access to healthy food plays a role in income and health in LA. Existing studies argue that food access is a crucial determinant for neighborhood health, evidenced by high rates of obesity and diabetes in areas with minimal healthy food access. We decided to focus on Los Angeles because it has the highest number of fast food restaurants per capita in the United States, and despite mass produce production in surrounding areas is considered a “food dessert” for low income communities, meaning they lack access to healthy and nutritious options.

We hypothesized that supermarket and fast food access for a given neighborhood are inversely related (i.e., the more supermarkets, the less fast food restaurants) and that the number of supermarkets is directly correlated to income. We believe that this should explain above average rates of obesity in low income neighborhoods that lack access to healthy food options. 

##Main Takeaways
Overall, we found that the number of fast food restaurants directly relates to both income and obesity, while unemployment, diabetes, and number of supermarkets require further study. In other words, more fast food restaurants in lower income neighborhoods often mean higher rates of obesity. 

What is most unexpected is the finding that the prevalence of supermarkets is not a meaningful indicator of either income or health. We found a high number of supermarkets in low income areas which implies that simply having access to supermarkets does not lead to a healthier lifestyle. There may be many other factors at play, such as prices, food preference, and convenience.

##Moving Forward
Though we found a high number of supermarkets in low income neighborhoods, we don’t have a concept of who frequents them and how much money they spend and need to better understand this to truly and effectively combat obesity. We know there is a strong relationship between income and obesity so, as we move forward, it will be important to look more into the details of both supermarkets and fast food restaurants to examine what’s actually being bought and what the revenue generated by each looks like. Are people frequenting supermarkets as often as fast food chains? If so, what are they actually buying? Healthy produce or equally unhealthy packaged foods? It’s possible that supermarkets are visited less often than fast food restaurants (due to price points or convenience). It’s also possible that the loose term “supermarket” includes corner stores that lack healthy options. The Google Maps API didn’t have a very strict definition of what a supermarket is and several studies show that many of the “bodegas” in LA tend to only keep packaged and unhealthy foods because that’s what sells best. Those studies found that produce, if kept in stock at all, tended to be in the back and of questionable quality. If either of these are the case, then we’d have a better starting point for understanding how to combat obesity. Clearly putting establishments there isn’t enough to provide access to healthy foods, other barriers are in place that are keeping low income communities from accessing nutritious options.


